Garlic Parmesan Chicken Pasta Recipe

This quick and easy chicken pasta recipe takes 30 minutes or less from start to finish. It’s loaded with a creamy homemade alfredo sauce, sliced chicken breast, and al dente noodles for a simple weeknight comfort food your family will love!


Chicken:

2 tablespoons olive oil
1 lb. thinly sliced chicken breast
2 teaspoons dried oregano
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1/2 teaspoon paprika
Kosher salt
fresh cracked pepper
Pasta and Sauce:

16 oz. penne pasta
4 tablespoons butter
6–8 cloves garlic, minced or thinly sliced
2 teaspoons dried oregano
4 tablespoons flour
1/2 cup dry white wine or chicken broth
3 cups heavy cream
1 cup shredded Parmesan + more for garnish
1/2 cup pasta water
fresh chopped parsley for garnish
Kosher salt
fresh cracked pepper
Instructions
Cook pasta according to package directions, just until al dente.
Heat olive oil in a large saute pan over medium heat.
Season all sides of the chicken breast with oregano, garlic powder, paprika, salt, and pepper.
Sear chicken, cooking it on each side for about 4-6 minutes or until a golden-brown crust forms on the outside and it’s cooked through on the inside. Set aside to rest.
Melt butter in the pan over medium-low heat.
Add garlic and oregano along with a couple pinches of salt and pepper and cook, stirring frequently for 1 minute.
Add flour and stir to combine. Cook, stirring frequently for about 1 minute.
Deglaze the pan with white wine, scraping all the yummy bits off the bottom, and cook for 1 minute.
Whisk in heavy cream. Cook over medium to medium-low heat, stirring occasionally for a couple minutes or until warmed through, smooth, and creamy.
Add Parmesan and stir together until it melts. Cook until it reaches your desired consistency. Season to taste with salt and pepper.
Add pasta to the sauce and toss to coat pasta evenly. Add a splash or two of pasta water to thin the sauce as needed.
Slice chicken into strips and add to the pasta. Toss to coat evenly and cook until everything is warmed through. Season to taste with salt and pepper.
Garnish with Parmesan cheese and fresh chopped parsley and enjoy!
Notes
Salt your pasta water! Don’t skip this step!! I like to add 2-4 tablespoons of Kosher Salt to my pasta water. This is an often missed opportunity to add more flavor to your dish. It’s your first chance to flavor the pasta and it also seasons the pasta water which adds additional flavor to the sauce.
Be sure to cut your chicken breasts lengthwise. I like to cut each breast in half lengthwise (with the knife paralell to the cutting board) to make two thinner pieces of chicken breast. This ensures that your chicken cooks all the way through in a shorter amount of time. If your chicken doesn’t cook through during the 4-6 minute saute in the pan, transfer them to an oven safe baking dish and bake them at 350 degrees until they are cooked through while you make the sauce.
The creamy sauce will thicken as it cools. Loosen it up with a splash of heavy cream, milk or broth.